docs/src/content/docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Install and configure the starlight-announcement plugin
---

A Starlight plugin that adds enhanced announcement banners with dismissibility, variants, scheduling, and page targeting - features missing from the built-in Banner component.

## Prerequisites

You will need to have a Starlight website set up.
If you don't have one yet, you can follow the ["Getting Started"](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started) guide in the Starlight docs to create one.

## Installation

import { Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'

<Steps>

1. `starlight-announcement` is a Starlight [plugin](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/plugins/). Install it by running the following command in your terminal:

   <Tabs syncKey="pkg">

   <TabItem label="npm">

   ```sh
   npm install starlight-announcement
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="pnpm">

   ```sh
   pnpm add starlight-announcement
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Yarn">

   ```sh
   yarn add starlight-announcement
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

2. Configure the plugin in your Starlight [configuration](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/configuration/#plugins) in the `astro.config.mjs` file.

   ```diff lang="js"
   // astro.config.mjs
   import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight'
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
   +import starlightAnnouncement from 'starlight-announcement'

   export default defineConfig({
     integrations: [
       starlight({
   +      plugins: [
   +        starlightAnnouncement({
   +          announcements: [
   +            {
   +              id: 'welcome',
   +              content: 'Welcome to our documentation!',
   +              variant: 'tip',
   +            },
   +          ],
   +        }),
   +      ],
         title: 'My Docs',
       }),
     ],
   })
   ```

3. [Start the development server](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started/#start-the-development-server) to preview the plugin in action.

</Steps>

## Basic Example

Here's a simple configuration with multiple announcements:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight'
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
import starlightAnnouncement from 'starlight-announcement'

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    starlight({
      plugins: [
        starlightAnnouncement({
          announcements: [
            {
              id: 'v2-release',
              content: 'Version 2.0 is now available!',
              variant: 'tip',
              link: {
                text: 'See changelog',
                href: '/changelog',
              },
            },
            {
              id: 'breaking-changes',
              content: 'Breaking changes in the API.',
              variant: 'caution',
              dismissible: true,
            },
          ],
        }),
      ],
      title: 'My Docs',
    }),
  ],
})
```

## What You Get

After installation, the plugin automatically:

- **Displays announcements** at the top of every page (or targeted pages)
- **Persists dismissals** in localStorage so users don't see dismissed announcements again
- **Respects scheduling** if you set `startDate` or `endDate`
- **Applies page targeting** if you use `showOn` or `hideOn` patterns

## Next Steps

- [Plugin vs Built-in Banner](/guides/comparison/) - When to use this plugin vs Starlight's built-in Banner
- [Configuration Options](/guides/configuration/) - All available plugin options
- [Announcement Options](/guides/announcements/) - Variants, scheduling, and targeting
- [Display Modes](/guides/display-modes/) - Stack, first, or rotate multiple announcements

Commit message:

Add rotate mode demo, GitHub Pages deployment, and documentation improvements
  - Add new rotate display mode demo page with carousel examples
  - Configure site base URL and GitHub Pages deployment settings
  - Add starlight-links-validator plugin for link checking
  - Update all internal links to use /starlight-announcement/ base path
  - Expand French locale support with localized showOn patterns
  - Simplify display-modes demo to focus on stack mode explanation
  - Update demos index with CardGrid components for better navigation
  - Add new docs for custom styling and internationalization guides
  - Update favicon with new SVG icon
  - Bump astro to 5.16.15 and @astrojs/starlight to 0.37.4

docs/src/content/docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Install and configure the starlight-announcement plugin
---

A Starlight plugin that adds enhanced announcement banners with dismissibility, variants, scheduling, and page targeting. These features are missing from the built-in Banner component.

## Prerequisites

You will need to have a Starlight website set up.
If you don't have one yet, you can follow the ["Getting Started"](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started) guide in the Starlight docs to create one.

## Installation

import { Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'

<Steps>

1. `starlight-announcement` is a Starlight [plugin](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/plugins/). Install it by running the following command in your terminal:

   <Tabs syncKey="pkg">

   <TabItem label="npm">

   ```sh
   npm install starlight-announcement
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="pnpm">

   ```sh
   pnpm add starlight-announcement
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Yarn">

   ```sh
   yarn add starlight-announcement
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

2. Configure the plugin in your Starlight [configuration](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/configuration/#plugins) in the `astro.config.mjs` file.

   ```diff lang="js"
   // astro.config.mjs
   import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight'
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
   +import starlightAnnouncement from 'starlight-announcement'

   export default defineConfig({
     integrations: [
       starlight({
   +      plugins: [
   +        starlightAnnouncement({
   +          announcements: [
   +            {
   +              id: 'welcome',
   +              content: 'Welcome to our documentation!',
   +              variant: 'tip',
   +            },
   +          ],
   +        }),
   +      ],
         title: 'My Docs',
       }),
     ],
   })
   ```

3. [Start the development server](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started/#start-the-development-server) to preview the plugin in action.

</Steps>

## Basic Example

Here's a simple configuration with multiple announcements:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight'
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
import starlightAnnouncement from 'starlight-announcement'

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    starlight({
      plugins: [
        starlightAnnouncement({
          announcements: [
            {
              id: 'v2-release',
              content: 'Version 2.0 is now available!',
              variant: 'tip',
              link: {
                text: 'See changelog',
                href: '/changelog',
              },
            },
            {
              id: 'breaking-changes',
              content: 'Breaking changes in the API.',
              variant: 'caution',
              dismissible: true,
            },
          ],
        }),
      ],
      title: 'My Docs',
    }),
  ],
})
```

## Verify Installation

After completing the setup, start your development server and you should see:

1. A colored banner at the top of every page (below the header)
2. A dismiss button (X) on the right side of the banner
3. The banner disappears after clicking dismiss and stays hidden on page reload

:::tip[Testing Dismissals]
During development, you may want to reset dismissed announcements. Open your browser's DevTools, go to **Application** > **Local Storage**, and delete the `starlight-announcements-dismissed` key.
:::

## What You Get

After installation, the plugin automatically:

- **Displays announcements** at the top of every page (or targeted pages)
- **Persists dismissals** in localStorage so users don't see dismissed announcements again
- **Respects scheduling** if you set `startDate` or `endDate`
- **Applies page targeting** if you use `showOn` or `hideOn` patterns

## Next Steps

- [Plugin vs Built-in Banner](/starlight-announcement/guides/comparison/): When to use this plugin vs Starlight's built-in Banner
- [Configuration Options](/starlight-announcement/guides/configuration/): All available plugin options
- [Announcement Options](/starlight-announcement/guides/announcements/): Variants, scheduling, and targeting
- [Internationalization](/starlight-announcement/guides/internationalization/): Localized content for multilingual sites
- [Custom Styling](/starlight-announcement/guides/custom-styling/): Customize appearance with CSS
