docs/src/content/docs/guides/announcements.mdx, before:

---
title: Announcement Options
description: Configure individual announcements with variants, scheduling, and page targeting
---

Each announcement in the `announcements` array can be configured with the following options.

## Required Properties

### `id`

- **Type:** `string`
- **Required:** Yes

A unique identifier for the announcement. This is used to track dismissals in localStorage, so changing an announcement's `id` will cause it to appear again for users who dismissed it.

```js
{
  id: 'v2-release-notice',
  content: 'Version 2.0 is now available!',
}
```

:::caution
Choose meaningful, stable IDs. If you change an ID, all users will see the announcement again, even if they previously dismissed it.
:::

### `content`

- **Type:** `string`
- **Required:** Yes

The announcement text. Supports HTML for simple formatting.

```js
{
  id: 'example',
  content: 'Check out our <strong>new features</strong>!',
}
```

## Visual Options

### `variant`

- **Type:** `'note' | 'tip' | 'caution' | 'danger'`
- **Default:** `'note'`

The visual style of the announcement. These match Starlight's [aside styles](https://starlight.astro.build/guides/authoring-content/#asides).

| Variant | Color | Use Case |
|---------|-------|----------|
| `note` | Blue | General information, updates |
| `tip` | Green | Positive news, helpful tips |
| `caution` | Orange | Warnings, deprecation notices |
| `danger` | Red | Critical alerts, breaking changes |

```js
// Information announcement
{
  id: 'info',
  content: 'Documentation has been updated.',
  variant: 'note',
}

// Success/positive announcement
{
  id: 'release',
  content: 'New version released!',
  variant: 'tip',
}

// Warning announcement
{
  id: 'deprecation',
  content: 'This API will be deprecated in v3.',
  variant: 'caution',
}

// Critical announcement
{
  id: 'security',
  content: 'Security update required!',
  variant: 'danger',
}
```

### `link`

- **Type:** `{ text: string; href: string }`
- **Default:** `undefined`

An optional call-to-action link displayed next to the announcement content.

```js
{
  id: 'migration',
  content: 'v3.0 includes breaking changes.',
  variant: 'caution',
  link: {
    text: 'Migration Guide',
    href: '/guides/migration',
  },
}
```

### `dismissible`

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

Whether the announcement can be dismissed by users. When `true`, a close button is shown and the dismissed state is saved to localStorage.

```js
// Non-dismissible critical announcement
{
  id: 'outage',
  content: 'Service maintenance in progress.',
  variant: 'danger',
  dismissible: false,
}
```

## Scheduling Options

### `startDate`

- **Type:** `string` (ISO 8601 date)
- **Default:** `undefined`

The date when the announcement should start appearing. The announcement won't be visible before this date.

```js
{
  id: 'conference',
  content: 'Join us at the developer conference!',
  startDate: '2025-03-01',
}
```

### `endDate`

- **Type:** `string` (ISO 8601 date)
- **Default:** `undefined`

The date when the announcement should stop appearing. The announcement is hidden after this date (end of day, inclusive).

```js
{
  id: 'sale',
  content: 'Holiday sale - 50% off!',
  startDate: '2025-12-20',
  endDate: '2025-12-31',
}
```

:::tip
Combine `startDate` and `endDate` for time-limited announcements like events, sales, or maintenance windows.
:::

## Page Targeting

### `showOn`

- **Type:** `string[]`
- **Default:** `['/**']`

Glob patterns specifying which pages should show the announcement. By default, announcements appear on all pages.

```js
// Only show on the homepage
{
  id: 'welcome',
  content: 'Welcome to our docs!',
  showOn: ['/'],
}

// Show on all guide pages
{
  id: 'guide-tip',
  content: 'Check out our video tutorials!',
  showOn: ['/guides/**'],
}

// Show on specific pages
{
  id: 'api-update',
  content: 'API documentation has been updated.',
  showOn: ['/api/**', '/reference/**'],
}
```

### `hideOn`

- **Type:** `string[]`
- **Default:** `[]`

Glob patterns specifying which pages should NOT show the announcement. Takes precedence over `showOn`.

```js
// Show everywhere except API reference
{
  id: 'tutorial',
  content: 'New tutorial available!',
  showOn: ['/**'],
  hideOn: ['/api/**'],
}

// Show on guides except the advanced section
{
  id: 'beginner-tip',
  content: 'New to the framework? Start here!',
  showOn: ['/guides/**'],
  hideOn: ['/guides/advanced/**'],
}
```

### Glob Pattern Examples

| Pattern | Matches |
|---------|---------|
| `/` | Homepage only |
| `/**` | All pages |
| `/guides/**` | All pages under `/guides/` |
| `/api/*` | Direct children of `/api/` (not nested) |
| `/docs/v2/**` | All pages under `/docs/v2/` |

## Complete Example

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  announcements: [
    // Time-limited event announcement
    {
      id: 'conference-2025',
      content: 'Join us at DevCon 2025!',
      variant: 'tip',
      link: {
        text: 'Register Now',
        href: 'https://devcon.example.com',
      },
      startDate: '2025-02-01',
      endDate: '2025-03-15',
    },

    // API deprecation warning (only on API pages)
    {
      id: 'v1-deprecation',
      content: 'API v1 will be deprecated on June 1st.',
      variant: 'caution',
      link: {
        text: 'Upgrade Guide',
        href: '/guides/v2-migration',
      },
      showOn: ['/api/v1/**'],
      endDate: '2025-06-01',
    },

    // Non-dismissible maintenance notice
    {
      id: 'maintenance',
      content: 'Scheduled maintenance: Jan 15, 2am-4am UTC',
      variant: 'danger',
      dismissible: false,
      startDate: '2025-01-14',
      endDate: '2025-01-15',
    },
  ],
})
```

## Next Steps

- [Display Modes](/guides/display-modes/) - Control how multiple announcements are shown
- [Configuration](/guides/configuration/) - All plugin configuration options

Commit message:

Add rotate mode demo, GitHub Pages deployment, and documentation improvements
  - Add new rotate display mode demo page with carousel examples
  - Configure site base URL and GitHub Pages deployment settings
  - Add starlight-links-validator plugin for link checking
  - Update all internal links to use /starlight-announcement/ base path
  - Expand French locale support with localized showOn patterns
  - Simplify display-modes demo to focus on stack mode explanation
  - Update demos index with CardGrid components for better navigation
  - Add new docs for custom styling and internationalization guides
  - Update favicon with new SVG icon
  - Bump astro to 5.16.15 and @astrojs/starlight to 0.37.4

docs/src/content/docs/guides/announcements.mdx, after:

---
title: Announcement Options
description: Configure individual announcements with variants, scheduling, and page targeting
---

Each announcement in the `announcements` array can be configured with the following options.

## Required Properties

### `id`

- **Type:** `string`
- **Required:** Yes

A unique identifier for the announcement. This is used to track dismissals in localStorage, so changing an announcement's `id` will cause it to appear again for users who dismissed it.

IDs must contain only alphanumeric characters, hyphens (`-`), and underscores (`_`). Duplicate IDs will cause a validation error.

```js
{
  id: 'v2-release-notice',
  content: 'Version 2.0 is now available!',
}
```

:::caution
Choose meaningful, stable IDs. If you change an ID, all users will see the announcement again, even if they previously dismissed it.
:::

### `content`

- **Type:** `string | Record<string, string>`
- **Required:** Yes

The announcement text. Supports HTML for simple formatting. Can be a plain string or a locale-keyed object for multilingual sites (see [Internationalization](/starlight-announcement/guides/internationalization/)).

```js
{
  id: 'example',
  content: 'Check out our <strong>new features</strong>!',
}
```

## Visual Options

### `variant`

- **Type:** `'note' | 'tip' | 'caution' | 'danger'`
- **Default:** `'note'`

The visual style of the announcement. These match Starlight's [aside styles](https://starlight.astro.build/guides/authoring-content/#asides).

| Variant | Color | Use Case |
|---------|-------|----------|
| `note` | Blue | General information, updates |
| `tip` | Green | Positive news, helpful tips |
| `caution` | Orange | Warnings, deprecation notices |
| `danger` | Red | Critical alerts, breaking changes |

```js
// Information announcement
{
  id: 'info',
  content: 'Documentation has been updated.',
  variant: 'note',
}

// Success/positive announcement
{
  id: 'release',
  content: 'New version released!',
  variant: 'tip',
}

// Warning announcement
{
  id: 'deprecation',
  content: 'This API will be deprecated in v3.',
  variant: 'caution',
}

// Critical announcement
{
  id: 'security',
  content: 'Security update required!',
  variant: 'danger',
}
```

### `link`

- **Type:** `{ text: string | Record<string, string>; href: string }`
- **Default:** `undefined`

An optional call-to-action link displayed next to the announcement content. The `text` property can be localized (see [Internationalization](/starlight-announcement/guides/internationalization/)). If `text` is omitted, the translated "Learn more" label is used.

For security, `javascript:`, `data:`, and `vbscript:` URLs are blocked.

```js
{
  id: 'migration',
  content: 'v3.0 includes breaking changes.',
  variant: 'caution',
  link: {
    text: 'Migration Guide',
    href: '/guides/migration',
  },
}
```

### `dismissible`

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

Whether the announcement can be dismissed by users. When `true`, a close button is shown and the dismissed state is saved to localStorage.

```js
// Non-dismissible critical announcement
{
  id: 'outage',
  content: 'Service maintenance in progress.',
  variant: 'danger',
  dismissible: false,
}
```

## Scheduling Options

### `startDate`

- **Type:** `string` (ISO 8601 date)
- **Default:** `undefined`

The date when the announcement should start appearing. The announcement won't be visible before this date.

```js
{
  id: 'conference',
  content: 'Join us at the developer conference!',
  startDate: '2026-03-01',
}
```

### `endDate`

- **Type:** `string` (ISO 8601 date)
- **Default:** `undefined`

The date when the announcement should stop appearing. The announcement is hidden after this date (end of day, inclusive).

```js
{
  id: 'sale',
  content: 'Holiday sale - 50% off!',
  startDate: '2026-12-20',
  endDate: '2026-12-31',
}
```

:::tip
Combine `startDate` and `endDate` for time-limited announcements like events, sales, or maintenance windows.
:::

## Page Targeting

### `showOn`

- **Type:** `string[]`
- **Default:** `['/**']`

Glob patterns specifying which pages should show the announcement. By default, announcements appear on all pages.

```js
// Only show on the homepage
{
  id: 'welcome',
  content: 'Welcome to our docs!',
  showOn: ['/'],
}

// Show on all guide pages
{
  id: 'guide-tip',
  content: 'Check out our video tutorials!',
  showOn: ['/guides/**'],
}

// Show on specific pages
{
  id: 'api-update',
  content: 'API documentation has been updated.',
  showOn: ['/api/**', '/reference/**'],
}
```

### `hideOn`

- **Type:** `string[]`
- **Default:** `[]`

Glob patterns specifying which pages should NOT show the announcement. Takes precedence over `showOn`.

```js
// Show everywhere except API reference
{
  id: 'tutorial',
  content: 'New tutorial available!',
  showOn: ['/**'],
  hideOn: ['/api/**'],
}

// Show on guides except the advanced section
{
  id: 'beginner-tip',
  content: 'New to the framework? Start here!',
  showOn: ['/guides/**'],
  hideOn: ['/guides/advanced/**'],
}
```

### Glob Pattern Examples

| Pattern | Matches |
|---------|---------|
| `/` | Homepage only |
| `/**` | All pages |
| `/guides/**` | All pages under `/guides/` |
| `/api/*` | Direct children of `/api/` (not nested) |
| `/docs/v2/**` | All pages under `/docs/v2/` |

:::note[Path Normalization]
Paths are normalized before matching: query strings and hashes are stripped, multiple consecutive slashes collapse to one, and trailing slashes are removed (except for root `/`).
:::

## Complete Example

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  announcements: [
    // Time-limited event announcement
    {
      id: 'conference-2026',
      content: 'Join us at DevCon 2026!',
      variant: 'tip',
      link: {
        text: 'Register Now',
        href: 'https://devcon.example.com',
      },
      startDate: '2026-02-01',
      endDate: '2026-03-15',
    },

    // API deprecation warning (only on API pages)
    {
      id: 'v1-deprecation',
      content: 'API v1 will be deprecated on June 1st.',
      variant: 'caution',
      link: {
        text: 'Upgrade Guide',
        href: '/guides/v2-migration',
      },
      showOn: ['/api/v1/**'],
      endDate: '2026-06-01',
    },

    // Non-dismissible maintenance notice
    {
      id: 'maintenance',
      content: 'Scheduled maintenance: Jan 15, 2am-4am UTC',
      variant: 'danger',
      dismissible: false,
      startDate: '2026-01-14',
      endDate: '2026-01-15',
    },
  ],
})
```

## Next Steps

- [Display Modes](/starlight-announcement/guides/display-modes/): Control how multiple announcements are shown
- [Internationalization](/starlight-announcement/guides/internationalization/): Localized content for multilingual sites
- [Custom Styling](/starlight-announcement/guides/custom-styling/): Customize appearance with CSS
