docs/src/content/docs/guides/display-modes.mdx, before:

---
title: Display Modes
description: Control how multiple announcements are displayed
---

import DisplayModesDemo from '../../../components/DisplayModesDemo.astro';

When you have multiple active announcements, the `displayMode` option controls how they are presented to users.

## Available Modes

### Stack Mode (Default)

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'stack',
  announcements: [/* ... */],
})
```

All active announcements are displayed vertically, one below the other. This is the default behavior.

Use this when each announcement is equally important and you want users to see everything. Works best for sites with only a few simultaneous announcements.

<DisplayModesDemo mode="stack" />

### First Mode

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'first',
  announcements: [/* ... */],
})
```

Only the first active announcement (based on array order) is displayed. Others are hidden.

Use this to prioritize a single announcement while keeping the UI clean. Order your config array by priority, with higher priority announcements coming first.

<DisplayModesDemo mode="first" />

### Rotate Mode

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'rotate',
  rotateInterval: 5000, // 5 seconds
  announcements: [/* ... */],
})
```

Announcements cycle through automatically like a carousel. Only one is visible at a time, transitioning on the specified interval.

Use this to display multiple announcements without stacking them. Good for promotional content or when you want all announcements to get visibility over time.

<DisplayModesDemo mode="rotate" />

## Configuration Examples

### Prioritized Announcements

Use `first` mode with carefully ordered announcements:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'first',
  announcements: [
    // Highest priority - shown first if active
    {
      id: 'security-alert',
      content: 'Critical security update required!',
      variant: 'danger',
    },
    // Medium priority - shown only if security alert is not active
    {
      id: 'maintenance',
      content: 'Scheduled maintenance this weekend.',
      variant: 'caution',
    },
    // Lowest priority - shown only if above are not active
    {
      id: 'new-feature',
      content: 'Check out our new dashboard!',
      variant: 'tip',
    },
  ],
})
```

### Rotating Promotions

Use `rotate` mode for promotional content:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'rotate',
  rotateInterval: 4000, // 4 seconds
  announcements: [
    {
      id: 'promo-1',
      content: 'New tutorial: Getting started with APIs',
      variant: 'tip',
      link: { text: 'Watch Now', href: '/tutorials/api-intro' },
    },
    {
      id: 'promo-2',
      content: 'Join our Discord community!',
      variant: 'note',
      link: { text: 'Join', href: 'https://discord.gg/example' },
    },
    {
      id: 'promo-3',
      content: 'Newsletter: Weekly tips and updates',
      variant: 'tip',
      link: { text: 'Subscribe', href: '/newsletter' },
    },
  ],
})
```

### Stacked Important Notices

Use `stack` mode when all announcements are important:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'stack',
  announcements: [
    {
      id: 'deprecation',
      content: 'v1 API deprecated - migrate by March 1st',
      variant: 'caution',
    },
    {
      id: 'new-docs',
      content: 'Documentation has been reorganized',
      variant: 'note',
    },
  ],
})
```

## Mode Comparison

| Feature | Stack | First | Rotate |
|---------|-------|-------|--------|
| Shows all announcements | Yes | No | No (cycles) |
| Visual space used | High | Low | Low |
| User attention | Distributed | Focused | Cycling |
| Good for many announcements | No | Yes | Yes |
| Animation | None | None | Fade |

## Combining with Page Targeting

Display modes work with page targeting. Only announcements matching the current page are considered:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'first',
  announcements: [
    // This shows on API pages
    {
      id: 'api-notice',
      content: 'API rate limits updated',
      showOn: ['/api/**'],
    },
    // This shows on guide pages
    {
      id: 'guide-notice',
      content: 'New beginner tutorials available',
      showOn: ['/guides/**'],
    },
  ],
})
```

With `first` mode above:
- On `/api/users` → Shows "API rate limits updated"
- On `/guides/intro` → Shows "New beginner tutorials available"
- On `/about` → Shows nothing (no matching announcements)

## Next Steps

- [Announcement Options](/guides/announcements/) - Configure individual announcements
- [Configuration](/guides/configuration/) - All plugin options

Commit message:

Add rotate mode demo, GitHub Pages deployment, and documentation improvements
  - Add new rotate display mode demo page with carousel examples
  - Configure site base URL and GitHub Pages deployment settings
  - Add starlight-links-validator plugin for link checking
  - Update all internal links to use /starlight-announcement/ base path
  - Expand French locale support with localized showOn patterns
  - Simplify display-modes demo to focus on stack mode explanation
  - Update demos index with CardGrid components for better navigation
  - Add new docs for custom styling and internationalization guides
  - Update favicon with new SVG icon
  - Bump astro to 5.16.15 and @astrojs/starlight to 0.37.4

docs/src/content/docs/guides/display-modes.mdx, after:

---
title: Display Modes
description: Control how multiple announcements are displayed
---

import DisplayModesDemo from '../../../components/DisplayModesDemo.astro';

When you have multiple active announcements, the `displayMode` option controls how they are presented to users.

## Available Modes

### Stack Mode (Default)

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'stack',
  announcements: [/* ... */],
})
```

All active announcements are displayed vertically, one below the other. This is the default behavior.

Use this when each announcement is equally important and you want users to see everything. Works best for sites with only a few simultaneous announcements.

<DisplayModesDemo mode="stack" />

### First Mode

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'first',
  announcements: [/* ... */],
})
```

Only the first active announcement (based on array order) is displayed. Others are hidden.

Use this to prioritize a single announcement while keeping the UI clean. Order your config array by priority, with higher priority announcements coming first.

<DisplayModesDemo mode="first" />

### Rotate Mode

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'rotate',
  rotateInterval: 5000, // 5 seconds
  announcements: [/* ... */],
})
```

Announcements cycle through automatically like a carousel. Only one is visible at a time, transitioning on the specified interval.

Use this to display multiple announcements without stacking them. Good for promotional content or when you want all announcements to get visibility over time.

<DisplayModesDemo mode="rotate" />

#### Progress Indicator

When rotate mode is active with 2+ announcements, a dot indicator appears below the banner. This provides:

- **Visual feedback:** See which announcement is currently displayed
- **Manual navigation:** Click any dot to jump directly to that announcement
- **Keyboard support:** Use arrow keys when focused on the dots

The indicator automatically updates when announcements are dismissed. If only one announcement remains, the indicator hides.

To disable the indicator:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'rotate',
  showRotateIndicator: false,
})
```

## Configuration Examples

### Prioritized Announcements

Use `first` mode with carefully ordered announcements:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'first',
  announcements: [
    // Highest priority - shown first if active
    {
      id: 'security-alert',
      content: 'Critical security update required!',
      variant: 'danger',
    },
    // Medium priority - shown only if security alert is not active
    {
      id: 'maintenance',
      content: 'Scheduled maintenance this weekend.',
      variant: 'caution',
    },
    // Lowest priority - shown only if above are not active
    {
      id: 'new-feature',
      content: 'Check out our new dashboard!',
      variant: 'tip',
    },
  ],
})
```

### Rotating Promotions

Use `rotate` mode for promotional content:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'rotate',
  rotateInterval: 4000, // 4 seconds
  announcements: [
    {
      id: 'promo-1',
      content: 'New tutorial: Getting started with APIs',
      variant: 'tip',
      link: { text: 'Watch Now', href: '/tutorials/api-intro' },
    },
    {
      id: 'promo-2',
      content: 'Join our Discord community!',
      variant: 'note',
      link: { text: 'Join', href: 'https://discord.gg/example' },
    },
    {
      id: 'promo-3',
      content: 'Newsletter: Weekly tips and updates',
      variant: 'tip',
      link: { text: 'Subscribe', href: '/newsletter' },
    },
  ],
})
```

### Stacked Important Notices

Use `stack` mode when all announcements are important:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'stack',
  announcements: [
    {
      id: 'deprecation',
      content: 'v1 API deprecated - migrate by March 1st',
      variant: 'caution',
    },
    {
      id: 'new-docs',
      content: 'Documentation has been reorganized',
      variant: 'note',
    },
  ],
})
```

## Mode Comparison

| Feature | Stack | First | Rotate |
|---------|-------|-------|--------|
| Shows all announcements | Yes | No | No (cycles) |
| Visual space used | High | Low | Low |
| User attention | Distributed | Focused | Cycling |
| Good for many announcements | No | Yes | Yes |
| Animation | None | None | Fade |

## Combining with Page Targeting

Display modes work with page targeting. Only announcements matching the current page are considered:

```js
starlightAnnouncement({
  displayMode: 'first',
  announcements: [
    // This shows on API pages
    {
      id: 'api-notice',
      content: 'API rate limits updated',
      showOn: ['/api/**'],
    },
    // This shows on guide pages
    {
      id: 'guide-notice',
      content: 'New beginner tutorials available',
      showOn: ['/guides/**'],
    },
  ],
})
```

With `first` mode above:
- On `/api/users` → Shows "API rate limits updated"
- On `/guides/intro` → Shows "New beginner tutorials available"
- On `/about` → Shows nothing (no matching announcements)

## Next Steps

- [Announcement Options](/starlight-announcement/guides/announcements/): Configure individual announcements
- [Internationalization](/starlight-announcement/guides/internationalization/): Localized content for multilingual sites
- [Custom Styling](/starlight-announcement/guides/custom-styling/): Customize appearance with CSS
